Transcription
okay so in this session we are going to have a walkthrough to our library let us see what exactly the dot lib looks like what it contains we have already seen theoretic in our theoretical sessions how what is a dot lib and dot lib is like a collection of our standard cells and it contains slow cells also fast cells also all these things we discussed correct so let's have a feel of what the dotlib is what it contains okay so our libraries are in this area so i'm going to open our sky 130 library okay so first let us understand the name of this library okay so it's going to open something like this So to have a pleasant color, I'm just going to do this. You can say, you can also do this in case if you find this red color to be irritating, you can do after opening it in GVM, you can say shift colon and say SYN off. This is syntax off. So it will switch off the syntax. Now let's see. So The library starts kindly don't edit this file. Okay. This is just only for understanding purpose. I request you not to edit this file. This is very important. Okay. So the first line tells you the name of the library. It is the sky 130. This is a 130 nanometer library and it is FDSC HD. TT TT stands for typical. OK. The libraries can be a slow fast or typical libraries. So TT is talking about the typical and you say 0 2 5 C 0 2 5 C is the temperature. These are very very important things we need to pay attention to. So there is something called as when you look into the library there is a three word coming into picture three letter word P V T P stands for process v stands for voltage t stands for temperature okay these three are very very very important for a design to work okay let us try to understand what exactly we mean by that see process there will be variations in process ok process why because fabrication has variation so variations due to fabrication ok variations due to fabrication ok that is When you're designing it's very simple guys say for example you're going to do some task repeatedly you cannot every time repeat the task in the same way correct say for example think about this let's say for example you guys are baking a bread can you say that every time you bake the bread the bread will get roasted in the same way somewhere you will find some places where the say you're toasting a bread some places it gets toasted more some places it's not getting toasted more correct so It's same thing. So any task when you keep repeatedly doing let's say for example, you are cutting a paper every time you cannot cut the paper exactly along the same line. Correct. So there will be some variations that is happening. Similarly the miss there are going to be some machines which is going to fabricate your transistor and that machine will have some variations correct. It cannot exactly dot to dot do the same thing again and again. There will be some variation that is going to create some process variation and then there is going to be variation due to voltage. This we clearly understand voltage because if when I vary the voltage there is definitely going to be a variation in the behavior of the circuit and then temperature. We all know semiconductors are very very sensitive to temperature. So the process variation voltage and temperature all these three together determines how my silicon is going to work. This can tell you whether the silicon is going to work faster or slower or all that. And when you want to make the silicon work, you want to make the silicon work across all the corners. When temperature varies also, you want the silicon to work. When the voltage varies also, you want the silicon to work. When the process varies also, you want the silicon to be working. See very simple. Let's talk in very simple terms. Let's say for example, why temperature? Let's say for example, let's take some example. Let's say you are making a product. some product say for example let's say you're making a CD player now the CD player will be sold in different parts of the world let's say for example you're selling a CD player which is getting sold in Switzerland the same thing is getting sold in Dubai and the same thing is getting sold in India So wantedly I'm picking three places having different temperature in Dubai always the temperature is greater than 30 degrees and it goes as high as 50 to 55 degrees centigrade also sometimes correct in Switzerland the temperature is always less than 20 degrees. Sometimes it goes to minus also. in India some places it is different and in these places also in the month of March it is different in the month of January it is different in the month of December it is different in the month of May it is different in day it is different in the night it is different correct but across all the places across all the time you want their circuit to work correct Correct. So we need to factor in these variations while we are designing our circuit. So our libraries will be characterized to model these variations. So this temperature this voltage and this process is what is indicated in the first line. If you see TT indicates a typical process 25 C indicates the temperature and volt 1 V8 indicates the voltage. Okay.