Transcription
Then it is trying to tell you what is the technology about. So don't worry about these things. These things are advanced topic which we will not be looking into the present session. So it tells you what technology it is. The technology is a CMOS technology. Okay. And the delay model is a lookup table. You will see what is this lookup table delay model. and then the time what are the units of time voltage and power all those things so the unit of time specified in this library is a nanosecond unit of voltage is volt unit of power is nanowatts unit of current is milliampere unit of resistance is in kilo ohms unit of capacitance is in picofarad okay And clearly see it's telling about the operating condition. So the operating condition this is what we told. This is the process voltage temperature. See exactly telling you the voltage. What is the process. What is the temperature. OK. Now what your dot lib is going to contain. So these are some advanced things we are not going to look into this. We will go down. and now onwards here you see now for every cell there are going to be lot of cells in your library correct. That's what we discussed your dotlib is a bucket of all the standard cells that are available to you. So you will see something called as cell. So this marks this is a keyword in your dotlib which marks the beginning of a cell definition. You will see the keyword cell I'm just enabling the line number, the keyword cell. Let me look for a cell followed by a space. Okay. Otherwise it's picking some other things also. So this is what is going to define the cell. So if you see here, there are going to be a lot of cells. As you can see, you can see different types of cells. see there's a and or gate there's a and or gate underscore 2 and or gate underscore 4 and or inward gate 0 and or inward gate 1 and or inward gate 2 and or inward gate 4 similarly if you can see this keeps on coming different flavors different flavors of different cells different flavors of same cells are also there see pay attention here you have a AND gate AND 2 AND 2 0 AND 2 1 AND 2 2 AND 2 4 correct so these are different flavors of two input AND gate clear like this it's going to have different cells okay so let's go to line number one and see what all other things are going to be there and then then the dot lib is going to contain different features of this cell. So what are the features of this cell? What is the leakage power? It will tell you for all the input combinations. So if you see for example and 2111 or that means what it is and or gate And it's a two input AND remaining all are OR. That's what is the meaning. AND to OR gate. So it is having so many inputs called A1, A2, B1, C1, D1. So it's going to AND A1 and A2 then OR it with B1, C1, D1. In case you want to understand the functionality of the cell you can look the equivalent Verilog model. That also is available, right? We can look at the equivalent Verilog model. So if you see here, not the lib, parallel to the lib is what we have the Verilog files, correct? Verilog model. And we are looking for and two, exactly. This is the one, right? Okay, let us open. We are interested in the behavioral model. Correct. Without PP we will open. PP is with power ports. We don't want to have the power ports. OK. Power ports. PP will have the power port information. We don't want the power port. We want the logical behavior only presently. See exactly this is what I was trying to tell you. Correct. It is ANDing A1 A2 and ORing with B1 C1 D1. So totally it has five inputs. 1 2 3 4 5. So when it has five inputs. The five inputs potentially can take each of the five inputs can take as low or high two values. So two power five, 32 possible input combinations exist. So for all the 32 possible input combinations, you need to know what is the delay, what is the power. That information is what is present here. Correct. So if you see here, see when A1, what is the meaning of this? When A1, A2, B1, C1, all of them are low and D1 is high. At that time, what is the power this cell is consuming? So if you see here like this, there will be 32 combinations of this. Okay. And then so all the leakage power is mentioned. Then it is giving you the area number. Then it is giving you the power port information. And then it is going to describe each input pins. So what is the input capacitance of this pin? What is the power related to this pin? What is the transition related to this pin? And what is the delay associated with this pin? All these things it's going to so it's going to tell you the power associated with this pin. A1 A2 B1 C1 D1. Let us pick a smaller gate. It will be much more easier to visualize and then it's going to tell you it's telling you the power information first. Then it will tell you the timing information also. See it's telling you the timing information. Okay, so let us pick a smaller cell. It will be much more in easier to visualize.